One thing I found out was I was never in a hurry to get
back to A&M on Sundays. And I don't think anybody
else was. It was, you know, you're proud of your
school, you're proud of A&M and everything, but
A&M on Sundays was not, there was nothing going on
here. And so we, you know, there was things going on
in Houston. I remember Jones Hall, as a matter of
fact, I even have some tickets where we would, on
Sundays, we'd go to Sunday afternoon matinees at
Jones Hall, and there would be entertainers
there, Peter, Paul, and Mary, Johnny Mathis. And
on Saturday night, would there also sometimes be a
big dance at the Rice or something like that? Well,
you know, I don't recall
going to that, what happened, what happened was my
high school would, you know, 98% of my high school
went to Texas. Lamar High School people went to
Texas. Or maybe SMU or TCU or Baylor, you know, but
they didn't go to A&M. And most, there was a large
number of my high school that I'd gone to
elementary school, junior high school, and high
school with, and so it seemed like my high school
guys would come back, would be back in town, and we
would have high school parties, and I would invite
my Aggie friends to those high school parties. I
think Ginny's here. She'll catch it. But I don't
remember Aggie-focused
parties that I went to. Now, at Fort Worth, it was
different. Describe that court trip. Well, at the
Fort Worth court trip, it was TCU, of course, we
were playing. I was not from Fort Worth. I didn't
know anything about Fort Worth, so it was a
reversal of roles. And so I stayed at somebody's
house, and his name was Mike Bryan, Fish Bryan. I
stayed at Mike's house, but because I was dating
Jeannie, I didn't. I didn't date anybody up there,
so I don't recall going to the parties afterwards.
And I think the TCU game that year was a night game,
so it wasn't over until 10.30 or so. In your four
years, do you remember any kind of negative event
as a part of the parade, the march? Did the audience
ever behave negatively? No. Matter of fact, I've
marched all over the world in all kinds of
situations, and I've never had an incident where
anybody threw anything at us, and certainly at
that point in time didn't. There was a lot of people
down there, and the core marching... It's
impressive to this day. It was impressive then.
It's always commanded respect. Yeah, so I don't
recall any shenanigans at all. That fall, while
all this is going on, were you going to class
regularly? Oh, yeah. Because I was not a good
student, I mean, I wasn't a natural student, I
never missed class. And I was always on time, and I
always did my homework regularly. you know, to the
best of my abilities. And that's what a lot of times
would get me from a C to a B. Did you have any rules
about where you sat in the room? Front or the back? I
didn't sit either one. I wasn't a front row, you
know, I wasn't a spring butt. But I wasn't a
rear-rank Rudy either. I think... Wait a minute.
Rear-rank? Rear-rank Rudy. Rudy? Rudy. R-U-D-Y?
Yeah, that's the little guys. In the formation,
back in the old days. Now, I changed it. When I
became an officer, I didn't form my... See, the way
you'd form a company at A&M was... except for the
seniors and juniors, everybody else marched by
size and you formed up from the right side and so
from the left guide and so I was always the right
rear guy, rear rank Rudy and so When I got in the real
army, I wouldn't let my first sergeant size the
men. I would march them by squads and keep them in
squad integrity. My formations never looked
quite as sharp as the Aggies, but I always felt that
squad integrity was more important than looks.
Were you all in the era when classes and or
instructors had nicknames?
Well, it may have been, but I don't recall. It's
about that time that they started ending. Yeah, I
don't recall. I
was raised where authority was authority, and as
long as the professor
did what he was supposed to do, he commanded
authority, and I wasn't. I wasn't going to do
anything to that
authority. The faculty members were always there
to teach? Yeah. And if you needed to see one in his or
her office, they were available? They were.
Matter of fact, I was impressed.
I wasn't a good student, a great student, and I
wasn't a bad student. So I was kind of in the middle
of the road. So I didn't have an occasion to need a
lot of meetings. But I remember some professors
made you. have a one-on-one with them. And you got a
card and you had a time. And I thought that was a good
technique because I did like
my chemistry class. It was 200 or 300 in my
chemistry class my freshman year. And I didn't
like that. I liked 30-man classrooms where you
could identify with a professor. Because, kind of
like football, the reason I got to play was not
because of my talent, but because of my heart. The
coaches, I mean, I knew all my plays. I practiced. I
was always there, always on time, and I gave it my
all. It's just I didn't have the natural talents
that other people had. But they would play me just
because... I would die before I let anybody down.
Well, in a small classroom, a professor would
figure out that I always did my homework, I was
always prepared, and I was honest, and I would do
everything I could. It's just that I wasn't a
gifted student. But in a big classroom, it was just
numbers, and you were at a disadvantage. And so I
did like it when you got to meet instructors and
start some kind of a personal relationship. And
you didn't have any teaching assistants. You had
real faculty members. I don't ever remember a
teaching assistant. Now, what I do remember, you
know, later on, and we'll get to that, I guess, was
all the international students that A&M had and
how impressed I was with that because they were
from Pakistan, they were from Saudi Arabia, they
were from all over, a lot of them in agriculture.
And I thought that was kind of neat that A&M was
doing that. I didn't realize at the time what a big
program it was and how important it was. It's just
that I thought it was neat that here this Texas
Agriculture School had all these foreign
students. And the foreign students were all very
dedicated and hardworking, and I kind of enjoyed
interacting with them. All right, another big
ritual bonfire. What did you do with bonfire your
freshman year? Nothing. We didn't have one.
Kennedy was shot, and I was passing Henderson
Hall, going to dorm night 17, and one of the Melton
twins, and I never could tell them apart, ran out
and said, Randy, have you heard what happened in
Dallas?" And I said, no. And he said, President
Kennedy has been shot dead.
And I know exactly where I was. And I said, you know,
and I started thinking about it, you know,
assassinations and what I'd read and history and
everything. You know, and I asked a bunch of
questions and it was on the radio. We went into
Harrison Hall and they were talking about it. And
then the next day or that same day, you know,
General Rutter announced there would be no
bonfire that year. So my Thanksgiving, November
of 63, there was no bonfire. Now, we did play Texas
University and we played them at home and they were
rated number one in the nation. And at the end of the
first half, we were winning 21-0. We were
outscored 24-21. But there was no bonfire. Now,
there had been some cutting done. Yeah, right. But
you and your outfit were not involved at that
point. Well, I was helping with the chainsaw crew
because I was a flatheader, and they knew it. my
reputation, you know, being on this farm and
having a pine tree farm that, you know, and I had a
26-pound McCullough chainsaw, and so they were
logging hardwood just south of here, and when they
would bring them up, and the bonfire then was
behind Sabisa. It wasn't over where the accident
was, and so I don't remember as a company project. I
just remember being singled out And the couple
days before, I was sizing logs, and I was showing
people how to do that and whatever. And I kind of
liked that because I was a fish, and I knew more
about what we were doing than anybody that around.
And there was a lot of upperclassmen, but they
didn't know what they were doing. And I'd run a
chainsaw since I was 10 or 11 years old. Had you all
cut? any down or many down? Well I wasn't cutting
them somebody else was cutting them and they were
bringing them in and we were sizing them and saying
okay these were going to be the base logs and we
wanted them 32 feet long and so we were measuring
and I was cutting them 32 feet or whatever it was and
then okay these logs are smaller we'll have those
for the second deck and then we want that to be you
know 24 feet long and so I was cutting and then the
logs would come in 26 feet and you'd have to cut two
feet off the small end. And so I was thinking that
part of the bonfire was already erected, wasn't
it? Well, I don't remember that. I remember my
mission was I was cutting logs away from where the
center pole was. I know the center pole was in place
because that was done early. And the others were
still on. Yeah, but I don't remember the crane yet
hauling anything because in subsequent years,
see, I was in charge of the bonfire chainsaws. And
so when I was, my junior and senior year was one of
the few people that caught on the stacks. Describe
that. Well, back then, we didn't stand the bonfire
straight up. They were angled in. Now you gotta
understand that everybody that worked around the
bonfire, that really worked around the logs, were
farm boys or people that kind of understood those
kind of things. They weren't engineers, but we
understood heavy equipment and the dangers. I
remember how important it was that the center post
be stout and properly bolted. I remember even
being part of the packing crew that would pack and
make sure the center pole was strong. My job was to
pick the initial logs that would become the
critical logs that the first base logs would build
around, and so we would bring all the base logs in,
the biggest of the trees, and we'd put those,
categorize them, and then I'd study them, and then
we would, you know, I was, this was my junior year,
you know, I said, okay, let's use that one, and so
then they would bring that up, and we would drag it
up with the tractor, and then the crane would lift
it up, and we would lean it into the post, and we'd
put one in, and then put one on the 180, and then put
one on the 180, and we'd fill up that first, oh,
about eight logs, and then we would start filling
on top. Well, on the sides, when we got to where we,
where whoever was in charge thought that was
enough, and we would start to build the second
deck, a selected few of us we'd get on the crane,
we'd put our foot in the hook, and we'd have the
chainsaw in one hand, and we would go up on the
second deck, or on the first deck, and we were the
flatheaders. And we would cut off to make the
tabletop, because even though we had measured all
the logs, when you leaned them, you ended up with
long and short logs. And so what you wanted for your
second deck was as flat as you could, so we went in
there and but but uh back then uh we all matter of
fact we all talked about you know what happens if it
falls and we all had plans so i'm gonna ride this log
down i'm gonna grab for the hook uh or whatever but
there was only three to five of us ever allowed and
and it was and the people up there were all uh
knowledgeable of um heavy equipment chainsaws
You know, we wore the right kind of boots. And no
hijinks. And there was, no. Up there. No, this was
all serious because this was very dangerous and we
knew it. And were you all working 24 hours a day?
Yeah, they had us floodlights out there. And I
think my junior year I did most of the night shift.
My senior year I did most of the day shift. About how
many weeks did you and the others work on that? I
remember it being a long time. Was it? It was a
couple of weeks for sure. But it wasn't a month or
two? Oh, no, no, no. It got real serious just the
week before. And I used to think... if I was in
charge, I could be better organized and shorten
the time because it was taking you away from
classes and a lot of competing things. And I felt
the bonfire was important, but I always felt that
if it was better organized, it could be done in a
shorter period of time. But I did always think that
none of the bonfires that I was involved in ever
fell prematurely. And did you all have a prejudged
size. Yeah, matter of fact I have pictures of the
bonfire and it was only you know. You weren't
trying to build it bigger than ever before. No, no I
don't know when that started. That started after I
left that every year it had to be bigger than the
year before because ours I think was three decks,
three decks of big logs and then maybe a fourth deck
of just a few logs and that were cabled together.
You can see the cable, I've got the pictures but I
don't know when the zealousness started of, I
don't know when it started of standing them
straight up, because I could have told them that
was not going to work. And I don't know when they
started making it so high. And that all happened
after 67. Now, who was actually in charge of
Bonfire? There was a cadet, and it wasn't Eddie Joe
Davis. I mean, it wasn't, you know, Eddie Joe was
our corps commander. It wasn't him. There was a
designated guy, and it was somebody, you kind of
grew into that position, and it had nothing to do
with corps leadership or whatever. What was kind
of neat about the bonfire, they figured out that
they better have people who knew what they were
doing, so they your core positions didn't count.
They were looking for the talent of people that had
done things like that growing up. In your four
years of working on Bonfire. Three years, yeah.
Three. What is the worst accident that you
remember? I do not remember an accident. Even a
smashed finger or anything. Really? Nobody broke
a leg? No, I don't remember any accident. On my
watch... where I was involved, there was never an
accident. We could have sprained an ankle or
something, but nobody ever said anything about
it. As far as you know, what kind of drinking and
hijinks went on out? Well, what was interesting
was all
my friends and everybody knew that I didn't drink.
And they knew I didn't really like to be around
drinkers. So it just didn't happen around me. I
didn't see it. I knew it was going on, but it wasn't.
The guys that were working on the bonfire,
I mean, this was serious business to us. And I think
the guys that were probably drinking were the guys
that, the wannabes that wished they knew what they
were doing couldn't, and so they were out there
just fooling around. But they stayed, you know,
away outside the crane, outside the bulldozers. I
mean, inside that ring, I always felt was a fairly
disciplined group of guys. And there were no,
there were so few co-eds. I never saw a co-ed on the
bonfire in my three years. And there weren't any
women hanging around. No. So it was a, No, it was,
no. You know, you never know for sure, and I guess
somebody could remind you of something you don't
remember, but, you know, I've read the accident
report. I was in Pacific when, and I read all the
stuff on the webpage, and I don't remember any of
that kind of stuff going on. Right, so you go home
Thanksgiving and Christmas, and then get your
grades the first semester. You passed
everything. Yeah, I did okay the first semester. I
mean, I did pretty good, really. So you're still
planning on veterinary medicine, second
semester. How did the spring semester go? Well, I
found out that I was a better fall student. All my
fall semesters, the grades were much better than
the spring semesters. Is there any reason? I think
I get spring fever. I thought I, as soon as winter
was over and it started being spring, you know, I
was ready to head to the woods again. You know, I
mean, I was, I just, and that's the only thing I can
remember because I just reviewed all, I've got all
my transcripts from, and the only, you know, the
exception to that was graduate school. I made all
As in graduate school, but by that time I was an Army
captain, and I was told, you're representing the
U.S. Army, and so I made all As in graduate school.
But at A&M, I made good grades in the fall, and I made
okay grades in the spring. All right, then you go
home, and what did you do that first summer? I went
to Carrizo Springs and I worked at my uncle's ranch
all summer long. Six dollars a day, room and board.
We were awake at 4.30. We would have the horses
saddled by 5.30 and we worked cattle all summer.
And the funniest story on that one, and I love it,
was I came back and I didn't shave or get a haircut
all summer. And I never left the ranch. The ranch
was 70,000 acres. And I went down there, and I never
left the ranch for three months. And I was the
junior cowboy, so I always was bringing up the rear
of all the cattle drives. And I always had the dirty
jobs. And so I
chose not to shave. And I didn't grow a pretty
beard, but I grew a beard after three months. And I
came back, my cousin, who went to my first cousin,
one of my first cousins, and one of my dearest
friends, was accepted to vet school. And so he, his
name was Donald Dauron from Louisiana, and he'd
gone to Southwestern in Lafayette and was
accepted to A&M Vet School. He was a native Cajun.
So he's married, too. And they're living over in
the World War II barracks that had an unsavory
name, but I loved the name. I mean, because it was
where all the married people lived back then. And
so I had talked to Donald from the ranch, and he was
already here, because vet students had to be here a
little early. And he was going to start vet school.
So they had gotten this apartment. They were
living on the first floor of one of those old army
barracks. And so I drove up in my pickup truck and
I'd never met his wife. And this is one of my closest
cousins, but he'd gotten married and I'd just
never met Marie. So I knocked on the door and I got a
beard on and long hair and cowboy boots and blue
jeans. And she says, oh, I'm glad you're here. The
problem is under the sink. And so I followed her.
And I said, well, and so I said, she said, don't you
have some tools? And I said, well, they're in my
truck, but I want to see what the problem is. I mean,
I loved it. And so she said, it's just leaking at
that turn under the sink. And I said, well, let me
look at it, and then I'll know what tools to bring.
So she opens up under the sink, and I crawl under the
sink. Well, about that time, Donald walks in the
kitchen, and I come out from under the sink, and he
says, Randy, what are you doing under the sink? And
Marie says, that's not Randy, that's the plumber.
And he says, no, no, that's my cousin Randy. And to
this day, it's the biggest laugh that my darling
Marie and I have. But no, I cowboyed all summer. I
went to, you know, and just, we worked seven days a
week, And you're still at that point determined to
be a veterinarian? Right, and I was vaccinating
and doing all the cutting and doing all the
veterinary type work down there on the ranch. How
was being a sophomore at A&M different from being a
freshman? Well, you're a new outfit. Yeah, I'm in
B1 now over in the new core area and Mickey Ballard
is our company commander. And I'm a sophomore.
It's
sad to say I didn't take the Corps real serious. I
was taking the ROTC courses, and there was two
officers over there, Captain Bolting, who died in
Vietnam, and Captain Jim Simmons, who retired as
Lieutenant Colonel and is still a lifelong friend
of mine, they were instructors and I was real
impressed with them. And so I was serious about
ROTC, but I wasn't a serious Corps guy. I just, I
kind of tolerated it, you know, because to be
honest, and you can read in my journals, it wasn't
anything that I disliked. I just had so many
interests. I mean, I was still rodeo clowning. I
was still calf roping. I was running this ranch.
You know, I was playing music, playing guitar. I
had so many interests that, and then I was, and this
was my home all around here. I mean, I knew
everybody in every town. And, and, you know, so
many of the people were from your shoe in the, in the
valley and, and, and, and the A&M was their family.
But for me, Off post was my family. I never caused
any trouble. I did everything I was supposed to do,
but my heart wasn't in it. I remember as a
sophomore, your mission was you had to teach the
fish all these things. I chose to teach them like a
couple of my football coaches that I liked. I was
treating them totally with dignity and respect.
and was telling them why and was talking to them
pretty natural. And I remember one of the juniors
called me in and says, you have to holler at them.
And I said, okay, I mean, I can, but that's not my
style. And I said, I think they'll see through it
very quickly. And he says, no, you've got to, you
know, you're just not tough enough on the fish. And
I said, well, let me do this. You put me responsible
for some fish. and tell me what they're supposed to
do. And after a few weeks, let's evaluate my fish to
somebody who's been hollering at them. Well, he
didn't take me up on it, because I think he knew that
I would coddle them and bring them around and
everything. So I was an upperclassman. who never
really harassed the fish, but, you know,
interacted with them and tried to teach them, you
know, the important things about A&M. And there
was some, you know, there was some really great
things that I felt that by the time I was a sophomore
that I understood that they needed to understand.
And who was the commandant at that era? Baker,
Colonel Baker. is who I remember. What was your
impression and remembrance of him? He was a crusty
colonel, and if you didn't screw up, you never had
the scene. If you just did your job, you could...
And I was kind of that way. Matter of fact, I never
met General Rutter personally because the only
people that met General Rutter were really good
students and really bad students. and I was in
between. But what did you in general, what did you
and all of your closest buddies, what was your
impression of him as a person? Colonel Baker? No,
Rutter. Oh, I mean he was on a pedestal. Matter of
fact, when I remember I was in distinct minority
And as a sophomore, my sophomore year is when the
first women came to A&M, 64. Yeah, talk about the
attitude you all had, you and your
contemporaries, about those changes. Well, I
remember I was in the minority in that I thought it
was a good thing. And one of the reasons I thought it
was a good thing was because I had read that General
Rutter was a proponent of it and felt it was
important to the future of the now university.
Because at the same time, we went from a college to a
university. And he did both of those things. And he
was criticized and credited with both of them. But
because he did them, matter of fact, there was a big
debate was, I'm going to have AMC on my ring. And I
said, well, if I ever get a ring, I'm going to have
Texas A&M University. And it was all because of
General Rutter. I met him, and I'd like to tell that
story. I met him on my way to Vietnam. I had gone
through all my schooling. I'd gone to the 82nd
Airborne and jumped out of airplanes for a while.
The Army called up. They saw that I was a pilot with a
lot of hours. And I think it was in my records how I'd
done in elementary flight training. So the Army
called up and asked me to go to flight school. And I
said, whatever y'all want me to do. And so I went to
flight school. Well, I was going to Vietnam in
December of 69. And I was really, you know, my
intent was to go to Vietnam, serve my country, come
back and try to get back in vet school. So Dr. Wooten
was my, because I graduated in ag eco, which was a
natural thing for a veterinary and medicine guy to
do. So Dr. Wooten was my advisor, and so I was on
leaving Houston en route to Vietnam, and I called
him from Houston, and he said, well, Ray, why don't
you come up and let's talk about what you want to do a
year from now. Because, you know, I was just going
to serve my country and go back to college, go back
to, you know, some kind of graduate school and try
to get back in or try to get in vet school. Well, so
I'm up here to see Dr. Wooten, and he said, so he
said,